It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number three
26. Recorded live Thursday, June 28th, 2012.
This episode is brought to
you by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online at  dot
com and by franklins.net training
developers to work smarter. And
now I'll bring gesture, pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details at
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Dave
ward about JavaScript performance and
the direction the web is
taking. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I want to talk about
the direction of the web
is going and I've got
Dave ward with me on
the line. How's it going,
Dave? Hey, pretty good. I
would like talking to you
because you really, I think
have your finger on kind
of the pulse of what's
happening on the internet. And
I know that you, you
have a good, you have
a purist attitude, cause I
know that I've worked with
you on code and we've
paired where you've said this
isn't really how I would
do it, and I want
it to look nicer, but
you're also a pragmatist and
you're willing to go and
kind of the direction that
is going to get the
work done. And I think
that we're seeing more and
more, that people are not
wanting to render all of
their angle brackets in their
HTML on the server side.
It seems like the browsers
are fast enough now that
people are shovel, shoveling Jason
around. Is that a fan
or do you think that's
the way the web's going?
You know, that's an interesting
question because if you had
asked me that a couple
of years ago, I would
have very clearly said, you
know, Jason, all the way,
you know, why would we
even bother rendering on the
server? But now we have
mobile devices, that account for
such a huge amount of
the usage on the web.
It's almost like we've moved
backwards a little bit there.
So I think it's a,
it's a really complicated question.
But at the same time
though, Google just announced mobile
devices, tablets. In this case,
it had quad processors. Is
it, it's one of these
things where every time we
think that a mobile machine
or a small machine will
not have the power a
few minutes later, it has
the power and we should,
should we shoot the moon
and just assume that everyone
will have 3d hardware accelerated
browsers in the next year
or two And virtual reality
goggles too. Right? Of course.
Yeah, no, I think that's
a great point. I think
it's a temporary problem, certainly.
And you know, I've always
been a fan of using
an API of some sort
that returns Jason, even back
when we worked on nerd
dinner, you know, we did
a bit of that and
I've always liked clients. I
template. I think it's better
because when you have the
data, you can do more
granular updates. You can, you
can do things that really
wouldn't even come to mind
as possibilities when you're rendering
whole pages or even just
partials on the, on the
server side because the, the
granularity just isn't there, you
can't do the neat stuff
like fading out a single
line or updating a, you
know, just a single value
in, you know, give me
a flash to, to show
that it updated small stuff
like that, that, you know,
makes a great user interface,
but it's very difficult if
you're not doing the rendering
on the client side. So
I do think that's the
way it's going to go.
I know for good user
experience, you really do need
that. When you think about
what happened recently with, with
Twitter and some of the
focus that they've been putting
on performance, I assume you're
familiar with their, their recent
kind of controversial blog posts.
Maybe you could talk a
little bit about what a
hash bang is and why
those show up in URLs,
what Twitter did a couple
of years ago and what
they did now and why
that matters to people who
care about the web. Sure.
So if you want to
maintain state on the client
side, you know, browser history,
you can't change the URL
you couldn't before you can
now with an HTML five
API, but it's still not
available in a lot of
browsers that people are using.
If you ever, if you
manipulate a document dot location
to change the URL in
the browser, it triggered a
full page refresh, which generally
isn't what you want when
you're doing sort of a
client side rich application. And
so the way that people
work around that to create
an application sort of like
Twitter or Facebook or something
like that, where it's a
lot of things are changing
without page reloads, you manipulate
the hash portion of your
ALS, which is, you know,
what you see when you
go to a Twitter URL
today, or maybe not today.
I think they actually have
started reverting that, but in
the past you see that
hash bang and then a
path after that. And what
that does is it allows
you to change the path
on the client side without
triggering those page reloads. Of
course, the problem with that
is the hash is not
sent to the server at
all. So if I go
to twitter.com hash, you know,
in kosha, for example, all
Twitter gets on its server
is just twitter.com and it
has to send down the
whole client side application and
then has to the clients
that application has to parse
out, you know, what's in
the hash Susan kosha, then
make another call back to
the server, to the API
and get, you know, whatever
stuff it was going to
render for in kosha. And
then finally build me a
page. So, you know, it's,
it's a lot slower than
if I just went to
twitter.com/enclosure and it could serve
me up the right thing
the first time around. And
so that's what the performance
problems have been around that.
So let me see if
I understand this when you
hit, you know, hanselman.com and
there's an anchor that's on
the current page, this is
kind of in the old
web, the web of, you
know, the original web, you
would have like a long
document, like chapter one, chapter
two, chapter three, all on
one page. And then you
would say a H ref,
a being anchor, and you'd
say this named, you know,
chapter two, and then you
could have another link that
would refer to hash, the
number, sign shift three on
the U S keyboard. And
that would refer to that
chapter and you would have
an in page link, right.
And that would not hit
the, that would not hit
the server. And we would
use, we would use that
for funny hacks and stuff
in the pre Ajax world,
right. Where we would jump
up and down on a
page and the server would
never know about it. Yeah,
that's exactly right. We're, we're
taking something that was designed
exactly for that in page
navigation, years and years ago.
And then we've sort of
found that that was the
only thing that we could
do before this new HTML
five API, to be able
to find some way to
change the, you know, the
browser history without reloading a
page. When you click around
to a, to a hash,
a hash anchor, you're, you're
not, there's no way to
hear about that on the
server side. And then in
September of 2010, when Twitter
built their UI all around
this, and we started seeing
these hash bangs dollar sign,
exclamation point style URL, everyone
thought that's the way the
web was, was going. And
in fact, all of Twitter's
permalinks turned into this. Like
we saw every single URL
change to this. I'm surprised
like when it happened, like
how could anyone have thought
that was a good idea.
I agree with you. I
didn't think it was a
good idea then. And now
they're saddled with a maintenance
nightmare forever. Because even when
they revert back to normal
URLs for performance, they still
have to somehow support these
old permanent links. At least
they should, there's still going
to need, yeah, they're still
gonna need twitter.com to be
able to have some, at
least some bootstrap, the client
side code there that can
detect that and realize, Oh,
Hey, I need to still
do some sort of redirect.
So it's where this should
be. So yeah, they really
painted themselves into a corner
with that one. I don't
think it was a good
idea at all. Google go
and put in some code
and their stuff to there.
They're starting to have JavaScript
in the Google bot, such
that they can see when,
when, when things like this
are being done and they
can still index the information
Well. So that's why the
bang, the exclamation Mark comes
after the hash. That's a
convention that Google recommended the
hash is all that's necessary.
You don't need to do
a hash bang to, to
get around the, the browser
navigation. The hash bang is
something that Google wants so
that it sees that as
a convention. And then if
say we had hanselman.com/hash bang,
Dave, and, and what Google
would do is they would
then if they ever saw
permalink to that, they would
make a request to hanselman.com/question
Mark. They would do a
query string. So that does
get sent to the server
and it would be an
escaped fragment equals Dave. And
so it's expecting your server
to be able to serve
up something, at least for
it to index that corresponds
to what that hash bang
URL was showing to users.
So you can actually work
around the, you know, the
fact that Google, but generally
couldn't run all that client
side code to, to show
it what the users were
seeing. One of the interesting
things that you said that
got me thinking was the
idea that we want the
speed of an application, but
we want the web to
be powerful. Like the web
is, and web API APIs
are supposed to be amazing
and supposed to be powerful,
and they're supposed to be
the backbone of which we
rest all of these applications.
And what Twitter has had
attempted to do really was
create an application that ran
on the user's browser, but
consumed their Twitter rest API
as if it were a
client, any other kind of
a client, which is basically
saying the Twitter website is
no different than any other,
any other client, no matter
where it's running, except in
this instance, the entire application,
the Twitter application composed of
all the different images and
CSS and JavaScript had to
come down a lot more
often than, than with an
application. Is this showing an
underlying problem with the whole
web versus application model? And
we just need the concept
of web apps to really
happen? No, I think this
is a case where Twitter
may have, you know, there's,
there's always a line between
what is a website and
what is a web application.
Obviously, if I go to
Gmail, I know that's a
web application. I know that
I'm not expecting to have
a durable links to documents
there or any of those
sort of things. Whereas I
think, you know, Twitter is
this trying to straddle that
line a little bit farther
toward the application side than
it really should. I think
really we think of Twitter
more as a, you know,
a resource, a full of
documents, you know, they happen
to be tweets, but we,
we expect permalinks to work
and we care less about,
you know, loading up an
entire Twitter application every time
we want to view one
tweet that someone links to
us. So, you know, I
think that it's not that
the, the web can't be
a rich application in the,
when it should be. I
think just in the, in
the case of Twitter, I
think they went too far
Well, and now what they've
done is they've calling it
the optimizing to a time
to first tweet. And apparently
they've dropped it down to
a fifth of what it
was. So, I mean, that's
a big number, but, you
know, phrased differently. It's 80%
faster. That's pretty crazy. That
means that it was super
slow before. And I know
that I've seen this when
I'm logged into Twitter. If
you notice that flash where
you see the background of
your own And suddenly you
see the tweet you linked
to. Yeah, absolutely. Truly unfortunate.
And they, the thing that
I think is most interesting
that if we dig into
their little announcement here on
improving performance on Twitter, is
that it came down to
dependencies. But the issue was
that they were just downloading
so much JavaScript and there's
really no good way to
tell on a page by
page basis what's needed. And
I think more and more
of us as we find
different plugins and little snips
of JavaScript, no one really
has a good sense about
what code path is being
used on a per page
basis. Yeah. That's something where
I I've long advocated that,
you know, especially in the
jQuery ecosystem, which is, you
know, when we talk about
JavaScript in the web, I
mean, it's sort of implied
that we're talking about jQuery
for most people, th the
ecosystem of plugins is just
gigantic, you know, and it's
so tempting to put every
eye candy plugin that you
find on your site, right.
But I've long advocated that
you should really try to
implement it yourself first, because
there were so many times
when say that fancy gallery
or slider plugin, it turns
out that for the implementation
on your site, it's just
a few lines of code.
I mean, very, very short.
And the big plugin really
is handling all the edge
cases and corner cases for
every different sort of way
you might want to use
it. That you're never exactly,
like you said, you're never
using all those code paths.
And then it's so easy
to build up that big
bloated site, like Twitter to,
Yeah. There's a really interesting
project from Microsoft research called
J S meter. Have you
seen that? No, I haven't.
I think this would be
right up your alley. I
can smell it. Dave ward
blog, post coming, even as
I tell you about it.
So the gas meter goes
and measures the runtime behavior
of a JavaScript program, and
it's meant to help the
team, you know, figure
out their, their JavaScript engine
and optimize it. But what's
interesting is that they've gone
and looked at like typical
web pages. And it turns
out according to the chart
that they published on the
blog, that the average
webpage only uses executes about
40% of the JavaScript that
they download. So think about
that, right? You're, you're literally
downloading a whole bunch of
code and not using it.
And that's where things start
becoming really interesting. Where do
you solve that problem? Right.
Do you download as many
JavaScript libraries as you can
and cash them all and
make jQuery built into the
browser so that you never
have to download Jacory again?
Do you let the CDN
handle that or do you
make the JavaScript engine really
smart and somehow parse just
the minimal amount of work
that you want to do,
because you want to find
a balance between jitting, which
is, you know, just-in-time compiling
stuff. And what do you
do with the rest? You
know, how do you assume
that, well, this, this website
may use these other libraries.
Do I want to get
ready for those? Do I
want to parse this parse
that I guess in
the new JavaScript library does
syntax only parsing, and then
doesn't actually go and do
the work of building the
syntax tree until the function's
about to be invoked, but
it brings up a really
interesting question, which is kind
of the underlying question of
our entire conversation. Is that
whose responsibility is it when
you're executing this kind of
code? Is it the server?
Is it the client? Is
it the operating system? Is
that the browser? Is it
the CDN? Well, I think
definitely the, the advances in
the browsers, like you said,
the E a blog on
MSDN, they have a great
post about those new optimizations
they're doing with the syntax
tree parsing and, and trying
to cash the already parsed
tree when they can between
page views and things like
that. That's awesome. I mean,
that's, that is really great
innovative work. And, you know,
I'm sure that the V
eight engine is probably doing
some similar things. You know,
they, they do great innovation
there too, but, you know,
going back to what we
were talking about earlier, you
know, mobile browsers and, you
know, you have a browser
and your TV now, and
probably in your refrigerator in
a few years, you know,
I don't think that it's
reasonable to expect to have
that kind of optimization. If
your site falls flat and
takes, you know, 20 seconds
to load without , that's
not good at all. And
it was a good question.
You know, in some cases
I've definitely been feeding a
server rendered HTML to mobile
devices when I do jQuery
mobile apps, because I just
found that doing the rendering
on the client side was
painfully slow. Really. And how
are you doing that? Cause
that, that brings up the,
kind of the final level
of optimization, which is developer
time optimization, right? I mean,
everyone's so excited about dynamic
languages and doing all these
things on the client, but
you're really talking about what
is a, an optimization where
you recognize this as something
that needed to be on
the server. Was it, was
there a tool that told
you this or did you
just figure it out? I
just figured it out. We
not even, we didn't even
have to profile. I would
say that in some cases
it would be nice just
to profile and see, but
in this case it happened
to be Android devices, the
browser, at least pre ice
cream sandwiches, just so painfully
slow. The difference was a
order of magnitude or more.
And so we realized we
had to do something and
it turned out that when
we fed at HTML and
did just fine, and this
was not something that needed
to be in the app
store. So that wasn't really
a hurdle we had to
worry about. So we did
that and it worked out
pretty well. And, you know,
like I said earlier, I
really would prefer to send
down Jason and, and render
that somehow on the client
side, I think it's a
better approach, but really you
do have to balance, you
know, I think that's probably
what Twitter is learning now.
They, they tried to go
too far into the future
too fast. And they had
to pull back a little
bit As, as developers that
are excited about using plugins
and using the ecosystem that's
available to us are the
tools available to us on
the client side, as a
client side, front end developer,
to figure out what is
being executed. Like for example,
I know that the modernizer
guys insisted that people stop
installing and downloading the complete
modernizer like, like jQuery used
to have like everything jQuery,
like J crew dot JS.
And here it is. But
we've seen with things like
gas meter that we might
only use 40 50% of
a library. So we're sending
the entire library down, but
only executing half of it
modernize or has said, no,
no, you have to make
a custom one. If you
want to use our product
and tell us the features
you want, and we'll build
you a custom modernize your
library. And they've actually said
they don't want their library
on CDNs, but how would
one even go in determine
the dependencies of, of what
is the usage of these
common libraries that my application
uses? Well, I think there's
a few things there, one
modernize or something that you
have to include in the
head of the page, instead
of putting as the bottom
where you would generally put
something for performance reasons. So
that's a big part of
why they don't want it
up there because every, every
bite counts there in terms
of download time and parsing
time, you know, cause that's
gonna block. Cause it has
to be in the head,
it's going to block, you
know, any of the page
showing whatsoever it's, it's, you
know, horrible performance tax. Modernizers
just, you know, awesome enough
that it's worth putting it
there. You know, I disagree
when it comes to CDNs
though, at least at least
for things like jQuery and
very popular libraries like that,
I would say the validation
plugins and other one that
is so widely used, it
makes sense because so many
people use it. I've actually
done a bit of testing
on this. People may be
familiar. I have several blog
posts over the years about
this, where I've actually run
a spider across the Alexa
top a 200,000 and then
eventually 1 million sites just trying
to see, you know, what,
what are they using? Are
they using CDNs? Which CDN
are they using, et cetera.
And I've found that the,
can I say Google, can
I see the Google CDN
on the microphone? I feel
bad about anything. I, I
may work, but I happily
like everyone else, you know,
I don't, I'm not, I'm
not married to anything when
it comes to me, I'm
married to his success is
what I care about. No,
no, I was joking. No,
I'm just saying it's, it's
a good point though. Like
I'm using the I and
S 10 blog as a
reference, but I don't care
to. Yeah. But, but I
found that the Google CDN
is so widely used. I
mean, just, just tons and
tons of sites that have,
you know, in the Alexa
top a thousand, especially there's
a, at least a few
dozen. And you have to
think that the, the amount
of reach that that has
on a daily basis, the
hundreds of millions of browser
caches, that, that primes is
just, just too big of
an opportunity to pass up.
That means that if you
say stack overflow uses it,
they do. And so if
then on my blog, I
also referenced the exact same
URL when someone hits, you
know, and probably most of
the people that come to
my blog have been to
stack overflow, you know, several
times before they come into
my blog. So when they
hit my blog, there's not
even an HTTP request for
jQuery. It just comes off
their disc instantly. It doesn't
even have to check for
three or four, not modified,
it's just instant off of
disk. And that's huge. I
think it doesn't help with
the parsing and all of
that. But, you know, I
think that with the ones,
the libraries that are really
widely used finding the most
popular CDN and using it
is, is a great thing
to do on public facing
sites. No, whether or not
it has to go. And
when do I know whether
or not my system is
going to go and look
to see if it needs
to update something like you
made a throwaway comment there
that it doesn't even need
to go and say three
or four, not modified. When
do I know that that's
going to happen and not,
There are a couple of
headers HTTP headers when client
first got to a page
and did not have it
cashed, say they hit stack
overflow, you know, at one
point, and they needed to
request that it made it
down to that script line
with the reference to the
CDN checked, it's a cash
did not have it so
requested. And in the response
that contains jQuery, there's also
some HTTP headers. There's an
expires header, which people are
probably most familiar with. There's
also a cache control header
that can do the same
thing. And in those headers,
you can specify this, this,
you know, resources good for
the next, you know, month,
year, 20 years, whatever. And
the browser then knows it,
stores it with that metadata
and knows the next time
it encounters that exact same
URL. It can just pull
it from disc because it
already knows that it's been
instructed that this is good
for a certain period of
time. What tools do you
use when you're doing this
kind of work? What are
you, are you a sublime
person? Are you visual studio?
What do you do? Because
again, you're a pragmatist, so
you're not married to a
particular tool set. I know
you use what makes you,
You know, I've been all
over the map. I really
like visual studio, 2012. I
do a lot of NBC
for work currently and I
use it daily for that,
for, for light work where
I'm just opening up one
JavaScript file and I want
to edit it real quick
or maybe I'm just beginning
to work on something. I
haven't figured out even what
backend is going to have
yet. So maybe I don't,
maybe it doesn't make sense
yet to use visual studio.
I like sublime text to
a lot. I use a
PC as my primary development
machine, but I do also
have a MacBook air that
I roam around with. So
it's really great to have
the same environment on both.
And then I also, for
some of my heavier work,
w when I go into
say WordPress land, or sometimes
when I'm working on node,
I like to use a
JetBrains PHP storm or web
store. If you don't need
the PHP support, it's a
bit heavier. And it sort
of feels a little less
at home on windows. You
know, it looks sort of
like eclipse, you know, you
can kind of tell that
it's a cross platform app,
but it works fantastically well
for, for node and PHP.
I've just started dabbling with
web matrix too. They added
sort of snuck in some
really impressive support for node.
I didn't even realize it
was there until I saw
a blog post a couple
of weeks after it came
out. And so that's, that's
some really impressive stuff they're
doing with it. Yeah. They
are spending a lot of
time in that. It's going
to be interesting to see
what the web matrix team
does as far as like,
is this going to be
a different direction? Like, is
it meant for a different
audience or is it going
to be a playground for,
for features that are going
to eventually show up in
visual studio? Well, we got
razor from that, right? Yeah.
I guess the webpages product.
So it was kind of,
you know, built in with
web matrix. And then next
thing, you know, it's one
of the best things about
NBC three. What is it
about sublime text that makes
People so happy? And I'm
wondering like, is it the
speed at which it loads
or is it the text?
Is that it's a more,
a more accessible way to
manipulate texts then maybe Emacs
or something like that. You
know, I, I do not
use it to its fullest
potential. So for me, it's
definitely not the high end
manipulation stuff that sort of
is analogous to them or
Emacs. I think for me,
it's just the speed, not
even the speed that it
opens up, but the speed
between when I press a
key and I see the
result, it seems like it's
just a little faster than
anything else I've ever used.
It, it just feels so
fluid and fast to use
it. And it sounds weird.
So it's almost a subjective
thing to say, but I've
heard a lot of people
say it too. I think
maybe it's just one of
those 10 millisecond things it's
hard to quantify, but is
actually important. I wonder if,
I mean, it might be
blast for me to say
this, but I wonder what
it'd be like to have
sublime the editor inside of
visual studio or official studio.
Like the Chrome is too
heavy for that to like
blast me to take this
kind of thing that is
perceived as being slow and
connected to this thing that
is perceived as being fast.
I wonder It's my understanding
that a lot of the
speed issues in visual studio
and I wouldn't even say
speed issues because in my
experience, visual studio is plenty
fast. I have not had
any serious problems with it.
I'm just talking about what's
that you have an SSD.
Yes, absolutely. I'm wondering if
VisualStudio hits the disc a
lot. I know a lot
I've been work has been
done in 2012. Like, let
me see if I hit,
I'm gonna hit visual studio
2012 year one, 1002 when,
okay, so it's already up.
So it's my visual studio
launches in a second and
a half and sublime or
sublime one, 1002, 1000. Yeah.
So, you know, they both,
they both launched in a
second or two, but is
it just that people, people
have slower hard drives or
that I'm just spoiled with
a fast computer? You know,
when I think when it
comes to visual studio and
people talking about the speed,
I think they're generally talking
about the speed once it
has already started. You know,
it's my understanding from the
people on the team that
I've talked to, that it
just does so much work.
You, you, you take for
granted how much work it
does every time you hit
a key. And it has
to, to be able to
do some of the advanced
things that it does. It's
so easy to take that
for granted, but it does
really do some, some incredible
things for you. Yeah. Yeah.
I think that, that one
of the things that, yeah,
well, it's funny. I got
in an argument with a
guy at a conference. I
was at recently, I spoke
at the Arizona day of
Scott goo that we do
every year and we're at
about a thousand people. And
we had a guy who
thought that IntelliSense and some
stuff that we were doing
in visual studio was basically
stolen from sublime. And I
reminded him how much older
other texts editors were that
were doing similar kinds of
things. But what I think
is going to be interesting
is not sublime versus visual
studio, which I don't think
is a contest. They're different
editors for different reasons and
more the in-browser editors. Because
if you write some JavaScript
in visual studio, like if
you write VAR a equals
quote, Scott, and then type
a dot, you'll get IntelliSense
that indicates that visual studio
actually knows that a is
a string and not an
integer. So you'll be able
to, to operate and do
things like that and sub
string. And if you said
VAR equals one, you would
get decimal and integer related
type things. That's because it's
running JavaScript right there too,
for something like sublime to
do that would require a
lot of work on their
part. So it focuses more
on the text manipulation as
being really, really agile for
text manipulation. But if you
move your IDE into the
cloud and you have something
like cloud nine or a
bracket, or any of these
other JavaScript based editors, it's
in a JavaScript environment already,
then not necessarily at the
general problem of IntelliSense, which
works for any language and
visual studio F sharp VVC
sharp, but the JavaScript specific
IntelliSense then becomes less of
a problem. When did you
think That's, that's an interesting
question. You know, I, when
you started going down that
path, I immediately figured out
where you were headed. And
then the first thing I
thought of was, so what
happens when you type an
infinite loop in your single
threaded JavaScript environment in your
browser and your IDE, does
it hang the whole browser,
the whole ID for the
timeout period of your JavaScript
engine? You know, that's a
good question. I don't know,
presumably they come up with
some way to do that.
And maybe, I don't know,
I actually haven't seen what
happens in, in, in, in
VA or in chakra or
any of these other JavaScript
environments, if they're smart enough
to detect that, that would
be, we'll no doubt hear
from, from the listeners about
that, but presume that they
can solve that problem in
some way, does IntelliSense become
becoming a nonissue in a,
in a browser based environment,
an ID, and even then,
would I trust my browser
to not crash while I
was doing all that work?
You know, cloud nine is
definitely betting on that. Yeah.
You know, I think cloud
nine, for me, I just
saw their new release and
the killer feature there is
the collaboration being able to
do the real time editing.
That's really neat. That's something
I definitely wish I had
had had several times in
the past. And in terms
of it replacing something like
sublime or, you know, or
visual studio, I don't know.
I mean, you know, the
easy statement is like, Oh,
no know, we'll never use
browser tools for that kind
of like Photoshop. We'll never
do Photoshop in the browser,
but you know, maybe we
will, we've seen so much
maturation in that area over
the past few years and
things are getting so fast.
I definitely wouldn't count it
out. No, absolutely not. Well,
cloud nine, they just added
Azure support. They've got an
offline version, a little application
for Mac and for Linux
they'll depose, they'll, they'll deploy
to Heroku that deployed to
cloud Foundry windows Azure. I
just, I don't know. I
just, yeah, It's really cool.
You can, you can start
up a get hub project
and start editing it in
cloud nine and then deploy
it right over to Azure
using their new node support
for websites. I can do
a node project right there
and push it over. And
that's really neat. I mean,
that's, that's great integration. What
kinds of applications can I
do? I guess it supports
a lot of different languages.
Yeah. I, you know, I'm
not an expert in cloud
nine by any means, but
I believe it'll edit anything,
but I think it has
good support for, did they
just say PHP and Ruby
that they just added a
node they've had for awhile?
Yeah, that's it brings up
a really interesting question. That
is, you know, we joke
about the browser just being
like, you know, another terminal,
but it is becoming an
OSTP on top of an
iOS, you know, and JavaScript
is clearly the operating. I
said before, you know, it
was the SMB language of
the web. It's becoming the
virtual machine for the web,
frankly, Java has lost, JavaScript
has won the VM is
there. So it's not much
more to say that JavaScript
is the operating system of
the internet. Yeah. I guess
that's what the Google is
betting on with the Chromebooks
and Chrome iOS. Yeah, exactly.
And it was, which makes
me funny. It makes me
miss HPS web has all
the more like the idea
of a tablet based entirely
JavaScript operating system. Yeah. You
know, everything I saw about
and of that seemed like
it was, it was really
nice. It seemed like they
did a much better job
than the other attempts so
far. And actually last question,
because I was thinking about
JavaScript and operating systems, have
you written any JavaScript on
windows eight? Because I haven't
tried it. And I was
wondering as a JavaScript person,
is it easy to write
a JavaScript app for windows?
I installed windows eight solely
for the reason of getting
into that development space, because
I think it's really exciting.
I am genuinely excited about
the potential of windows eight
development using HTML, CSS and
JavaScript. I have not had
a chance to build an
app from scratch yet, but
I've a new project up
some of the, the templates
and I've poked around and
looked at how they're laid
out and some of those
sort of things. And, you
know, it looks pretty clean.
You know, I think that
they're doing things right. Obviously
there's still some changes to
come in the API, but
you know, I think it's
actually going to be pretty
good. I think that a
JavaScript developer that as long
as they are pretty comfortable
with MVVM as an approach
to the rendering, I think
they can sit down with
that and they would look
at the, the approach to
it and think it was
a good approach. They wouldn't
think it was us, this
Microsoft junk, you know? Yeah.
So you think that JavaScript
is a safe place to
be like, if you're a
web developer, it's great that,
you know, Ruby or, you
know, PHP or, you know,
asp.net. But if you got
to know JavaScript to be
successful right now, Be successful,
maybe not. I see people
definitely getting away with knowing
less than they should, but
to really do the best
work possible. If you're on
the web, yes. You should
absolutely know JavaScript and be
comfortable with it. And it
has its flaws and there's
some good workarounds for a
lot of those flaws. And
just go ahead and embrace
it, realize that it is
what it is. It's not
perfect, but it has such
incredibly broad reach that it's
just worth looking past some
of the, that it does
happen. Cool. Well, thanks for
hanging out. I appreciate it.
Yeah, sure. It was great
talking to you. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and we'll see you
again next week.